---
  layout: post
---

Source tarball available at:
[https://github.com/blblack/gdnsd/releases/](https://github.com/blblack/gdnsd/releases/)

    1.11.0 - 2013-12-06
        Bugfixes:-----------
          fixed edns-client-subnet issue with configurations that
            enclose a geoip resource within a metafo resource: the
            metafo plugin would clear the edns scope mask set by
            the geoip plugin in this case, but no longer does so.
          fixed a segfault that could occur when parsing an illegal
            configuration for the metafo and geoip plugins.
          misc improvements to warning/error outputs
          misc doc fixups
        Features/Changes:---
          New options 'udp_threads' and 'tcp_threads' (global or
            per-listen-address).  Both default to 1, which is
            the previous behavior.  If increased, SO_REUSEPORT
            is set on the affected listening sockets, and multiple
            sockets are bound to the same address with separate
            listening threads.  If SO_REUSEPORT is not available
            (as is the case for Linux kernels < 3.9), the options
            will be forced down to 1.
          New option 'zones_strict_data', similar to the old
            'strict_data' option, upgrades zone data warnings to
            full errors.  Defaults false.
          New commandline option '-S' temporarily enables
            'zones_strict_data' regardless of config-file setting,
            mostly useful for 'checkconf'
          New commandline option '-s', as above for 'zones_strict_startup'
          'listen' option: new values 'any' and 'scan'.  'any' uses
            the ANY-addresses (IPv4 + v6 as applicable), and 'scan'
            scans the interface list via getifaddrs() and configures
            each valid address as a separate listener, which is still
            the default behavior.  A warning has been added when using
            the implicit default 'scan' behavior, indicating that the
            default will change to the 'any' behavior in a future
            release.
          PTR records no longer do additional-section processing, as
            per the RFCs (not that any practical config ever made use
            of it anyways)
        Deprecations:-------
          The use of 'cnames' in the same resource as 'addrs_v[46]'
            in the 'weighted' plugin is deprecated.  Please migrate
            away from this by placing the cnames in a separate
            resource.
          'late_bind_secs' feature is deprecated, and should be
            unnecessary now that we fallback to attempting
            IP_FREEBIND (or the BSD equivalent) on initial bind()
            failure.
          'zones_rfc1035_strict_startup' option was renamed to
            'zones_strict_startup' with deprecated support for
            the old name.
          'tcp_clients_per_socket' option was renamed to
            'tcp_clients_per_thread' with deprecated support
            for the old name.
          'tcp_disabled' option deprecated in favor of setting
            the new 'tcp_threads' option to zero.
        *** NOTE *** Version 2.0.0 will be coming up soon, it could
           even potentially be the very next release.  2.0.0 will contain
           major feature work related to plugins, and (as the bump of
           the leading version number indicates) it won't be a fully
           backwards-compatible release.
         Most things that have become "deprecated" over the past
           several releases will have their backwards-compatibility
           removed in 2.0.0, and notably the plugin API will have
           substantial changes for any 3rd-party plugin code to
           accomodate.  You have been warned!
