---
  layout: post
---

Source tarball available at:
[https://github.com/gdnsd/gdnsd/releases/](https://github.com/gdnsd/gdnsd/releases/)

    1.10.0 - 2013-09-04
        Features:
          The configuration syntax now supports include files.
        Bugfixes:
          Responses to type=ANY queries on CNAME RRs were incorrect
            per the relevant RFCs.  Now they're correct.  I don't
            believe the broken cases were broken in ways that would
            matter for most users in production queries, though.
          When the final line of a zonefile contained a data record
            with no terminating newline, the unterminated data was
            silently ignored.  This now produces a proper parse error.
          Made testsuite more likely to succeed when run as root,
            which is still a bad idea.  Also warns loudly in an
            effort to reduce bug reports about testsuite failures
            when running as root.
          Several smaller bugfixes - minor code issues never seen in
            the wild, found via valgrind, clang-analyzer, and/or Coverity.
        Meta-stuff:
          Travis (http://travis-ci.org) support added to automatically
            run the build+test process for incoming pull requests
            and new pushes to the main branches as well.
          Started using Coverity's free scan tool for open source
            projects, which has helped spot additional defects.
          Moved general info out of README.md and into http://gdnsd.org
            hosted on github pages or the INSTALL file as appropriate.
            Tarball downloads are now at http://downloads.gdnsd.org as
            well, but the old downloads.gdnsd.net URLs will redirect there.
          Removed the pkg/ subdirectory and RPM specfiles.  I'm not
            really using or maintaining these personally anymore, and
            they really don't belong in the upstream source anyways, as
            there are too many distro/version differences to account for.
            Leave that stuff to the distro packagers.
