---
  layout: post
---

Source tarball available at:
[https://github.com/gdnsd/gdnsd/releases/](https://github.com/gdnsd/gdnsd/releases/)

    2.0.0 - 2014-10-02
      *** Commandline / Signal changes:
        * The signal for zone data reloads is now SIGUSR1, not SIGHUP.
        * The action "reload" has been renamed to "reload-zones",
          and sends the new SIGUSR1 signal.
        * The action "force-reload" has been removed.  Replace it
          with invocations of "restart" if that's what you need.
        * The point of the above changes is to free up SIGHUP and
          "reload" for future reuse for a new reload behavior, but
          get the compatibility breaking out of the way now with
          the major version bump.

      *** Other
        * The hacky support for attempting fast reloads under systemd
          has been removed completely.  It's not worth the pain, and
          better ideas are coming in the long run.
        * UDP requests with a source port of zero will now count
          as UDP "recvfail" in stats and will not be processed for reply.
          Previously we tried to reply to these and ended up failing
          the related sendmsg call and incrementing "sendfail".
        * Default 'max_edns_response' raised from 1280 to 1410.
        * UDP socket buffer default negotiation improvements
        * Various perf tweaks and code cleanups

      *** Please read the 2.0.0-beta news below for everything
          else that's changed since 1.x.

    2.0.0-beta - 2014-09-10
      *** This is a beta release to get more people to try it in
          tarball form prior to the official 2.0.0 release.
          Please do not release stable distro packages based on this
          release!

      *** General feature changes:
        * Static address RR-sets in zonefiles are no longer limited
          to 256 RRs per-family
        * Dynamic address RR-sets from plugins are no longer limited
          to 64 RRs per-family.
        * The default 'listen' setting is now 'any', which listens on
          the IPv4 and IPv6 (if available) ANY-addresses 0.0.0.0 and
          [::].  The previous interface-scanning mode can be enabled
          via 'listen = scan'.
        * New TTL-related options: max_ttl, min_ttl, and max_ncache_ttl
          cause clamping (and warning) of zone TTL values.  There is
          a hard maximum on max_ttl of 268435455 (2^28-1, ~8.5 years).
        * New config option 'max_edns_response' to cap edns0 response
          sizes to a value smaller than that advertised by clients,
          defaults to 1280.
        * The timeout parameter of a service_type now defaults to
          half of the specified interval.
        * New service_types plugin "extfile" - allows for the consumption
          of outside monitoring data via disk file in vscf format.
        * Experimental support for djbdns zonefiles
        * IPv6 runtime support is now a requirement, and the related
          option monitor_force_v6_up was removed.
        * Output data from the stats http listener has changed, please
          update any parsers.

      *** Dynamic address resolution changes:
        * The 'DYNC' rr-type can now dynamically return address or
          CNAME data at the plugin's discretion.
        * The zonefile syntax for the TTLs of DYNA and DYNC RRs has changed.
          It now accepts the form MAX[/MIN], where MIN defaults to half
          of MAX.
        * The TTL behavior for DYNA/DYNC has changed substantially:
          Previously the zonefile TTL would be served as-is for 'UP'
          resources, and cut in half for 'DANGER' or 'DOWN' resources.
          Now, an internal TTL is calculated based on the minimum time
          to the next state change between 'UP' and 'DOWN' according to
          the normal monitoring intervals and anti-flap code.
          This internal TTL is then clamped to the maximum and minimum
          TTL values from the relevant zonefile RR.
        * In cases where multiple monitored resources participate in a
          plugin's decision and/or response (e.g. multifo), the internal
          TTL will generally be the minimum of all involved internal
          monitoring TTLs.

      *** Service monitoring changes:
        * CNAMEs can now be monitored entities in the general sense.
          Note that this does not imply resolving external CNAMEs
          for direct service checks, at least not with any current
          plugins.  It just means things like extmon/extfile can
          provide custom monitor feedback, and they can be administrated
          through the admin_state interface described below.
        * plugin_static now also acts as a monitoring plugin.  It sets a
          fixed up/down value and optionally a fixed internal TTL value.
        * The extmon, extfile, static, and null plugins support the
          monitoring of CNAME resources.
        * The metafo, geoip, and weighted plugins make use of CNAME
          monitoring for their CNAME-based resources.
        * Monitored service states are now labeled with just their
          service_type and address (or CNAME), but not the plugin
          and/or resource name which (first) configured them.
        * Empty service_types ('service_types = []') is now legal,
          and suppresses the use of the default 'up' service_type.
        * The 'DANGER' state no longer exists in the built-in monitoring
          system.  A resource is either 'UP' or 'DOWN' at any given
          time.  The monitoring algorithms and thresholds haven't
          changed; 'DANGER' just isn't exposed as a separate state
          from 'UP'.
        * plugin_extmon: the value 'fail_once' for the option
          'helper_failure_action' no longer exists, as it no longer
          makes sense without a visible DANGER state.  The new default
          is 'stasis'.
        * The special service_type 'danger' no longer exists.
        * The special service_type 'none' as an alias for 'up' no
          longer exists.  Use 'up' instead.
        * The special default service_type 'default' (which used
          plugin_http) no longer exists.  The new default is 'up'.

      *** Administrative state-forcing:
        * All monitored entities can be administratively forced
          UP or DOWN (optionally, with a specific monitored TTL) at
          runtime.
        * Additionally, plugins can register virtual entities which
          have no separate real monitoring, but can be administratively
          forced into a non-default state.
        * The current virtual entities in use are the datacenters of
          plugin_metafo and plugin_geoip.  In the plugin_geoip case,
          there are two levels of state-forcing for datacenters: at
          the per-resource level or the map level.  The more-specific
          per-resource level state takes precedence over the map-
          level state, and both override any state from lower-level
          monitored (or forced) resources within a datacenter.
        * The mechanism for forcing state is via writing to a file
          named e.g. /var/lib/gdnsd/admin_state in vscf format
          with lines like "192.0.2.*/http => DOWN/300", or
          "geoip/map3/dc-us => UP".  As shown in the first example,
          glob patterns are allowed for matching entity names.

      *** Daemonization changes:
        * The argument "-d <rootdir>" has been replaced by "-c <cfgdir>",
          e.g. "gdnsd -c /etc/gdnsd start", with a default of
          ${sysconfdir}/gdnsd.
        * Two new configuration options for run_dir and state_dir to
          override the autoconf-based defaults of e.g. [/var]/run/gdnsd
          and /var/lib/gdnsd, respectively.  It's probably better to
          change these via ./configure args in the normal case; this
          is mostly for testsuite-like stuff or multiple instances on
          a single machine.
        * Direct, inbuilt support for chroot() has been removed.  There
          are much better security container options out there today that
          can be configured externally to wrap gdnsd and/or limit its
          privileges.  Use them!
        * debug-mode is now enabled on the commandline via "-D",
          and even production builds now produce some level of
          debug log output.
        * "startfg" has been replaced with the flag "-f", which can
          be used with any of the start or restart -like actions
          to remain in the foreground.
        * initgroups() is now called during privdrop operations,
          allowing the daemon to have the secondary group permissions
          assigned to its user in /etc/group or equivalent.
        * Foreground daemons participate fully in all other aspects
          of daemonization (e.g. privdrop and pidfile locking)
        * It is possible to properly restart a daemon instance from
          background to foreground and back again; meaning "-f restart"
          can take over from a regular daemon into the foreground,
          and then a regular "restart" in another terminal can replace
          the foreground daemon with a new background one.
        * Restarts are now even more seamless than they were before.
          All expensive operations are completed before attempting to
          kill the previous daemon instance (even monitor initialization),
          leaving only the timing gap of waiting for the old daemon to
          exit in response to its death signal before binding the
          listening sockets in the new daemon, however:
        * In cases where SO_REUSEPORT works, the new daemon's listeners
          will be bound just *before* sending that death signal to reduce
          lost requests even further.  Note that you'll probably
          still lose a handful of requests that were in the old daemon's
          socket buffers at the time of its death.

      *** Trivial, previously-deprecated incompatibilities:
        * plugin_weighted: no longer allows 'cnames' alongside
          'addrs_v4' or 'addrs_v6' in the same resource.
        * plugin_weighted: the pointless 'cnames' singleton substanza is
          no longer supported; just place the entries directly in the
          top level of the resource.
        * The 'late_bind_secs' option was removed.
        * The 'tcp_clients_per_socket' option is removed. Use
          'tcp_clients_per_thread' instead.
        * The 'disble_tcp' option is removed. Use 'tcp_threads = 0' instead.
        * The 'zones_rfc1035_strict_startup' option is removed.  Use
          'zones_strict_startup' instead.
        * plugin_extmon: %%IPADDR%% replaced by %%ITEM%%
        * Direct support for the SPF RR-type (99) has been removed.

      *** Other misc incompatibilities
        * The plugin API has changed substantially; any third-party
          plugins will need substantial source-level updates.  See the
          gdnsd-plugin-api docs.
        * Support for the old, experimental edns-client-subnet option code
          0x50fa has been removed; gdnsd now only supports the official,
          IANA-assigned option code 0x0008.

      *** Build changes
        * libcap is no longer used on Linux
        * --without-libcap doesn't exist anymore
        * --with-rootdir doesn't exist anymore
        * Perl 5.8.1+ and "perldoc" is required for building
        * Preliminary systemd support via --with-systemd
