---
  layout: post
---

Source tarball and GPG signature available at:
[https://github.com/gdnsd/gdnsd/releases/](https://github.com/gdnsd/gdnsd/releases/)

    2.3.0 - 2017-11-20
      *** Bugfixes:
        * Comments at the end of RRs using RFC 3597 syntax now work properly with
          whitespace, fixes Github issue 147.
        * UDPv6 listening sockets no longer fail fatally if IPV6_DONTFRAG cannot be
          set on them, possibly fixing Github issue 115 for some OpenVZ+Debian
          installations.
      *** Features:
        * any_mitigation - New boolean config option, default true.  When
          enabled, gdnsd sends empty truncated responses to ANY queries over
          UDP, which mitigates their use in amplified reflection attacks and
          forces legitimate clients to use TCP for these queries.  In the
          future, the behavior of this option may be relaxed in combination with
          other more-general mitigation strategies such as RRL and/or cookies.
        * The configuration language's $include{} directive now supports
          including whole directories or glob wildcards.  The previous behavior
          was to treat the include pathname as a singular literal filename.  The
          new behavior first checks whether the pathname is the literal name of
          an existing directory.  If so, all files within will be included (as
          if the glob pattern "/*" were appended), and it will not be an error
          if no matching files exist.  Otherwise, the pathname is treated as a
          glob wildcard match, and it will be an error if no matches exist.
        * plugin_extmon has a new per-service option 'max_proc' which defaults to
          zero.  If non-zero, this sets the limit on the number of concurrent
          commands that will be run.  If the limit is exceeded, excess commands are
          rescheduled for 0.1 seconds later. After a few runs, the processes will
          be spread out enough to run without running into the limit.  This avoids
          thundering herds of subprocess executions at startup in large
          configurations.  Contributed by ScaleEngine / Alan Jude.
        * CAA records are now natively supported in the normal rdata format from
          RFC 6844.  CAA records continue to be supported in RFC 3597 generic
          format as well, although this is not recommended going forward.
        * plugin_geoip has a new top-level option "undefined_datacenters_ok", which
          allows resources to leave some of their map's datacenters undefined.
          Enabling this can be dangerous, see warnings in the documentation.
