---
  layout: post
---

Source tarball and GPG signature available at:
[https://github.com/gdnsd/gdnsd/releases/](https://github.com/gdnsd/gdnsd/releases/)

    3.4.0 - 2020-11-19
        * The default value of 'experimental_no_chain' has changed from false to
          true.  This change affects on-the-wire DNS responses in the case of a
          CNAME record which points to another record in the same zone. This is
          kind of an edge case for a semver minor version bump: this is not
          strictly a feature-add, but the behavioral change here is deep in the
          weeds most users will never see and has been about as widely tested as it
          can be without becoming a default like it is now.  In case of issues, it
          can still be disabled by explicitly configuring it to false (which will
          also emit an error to syslog at startup pleading for bug reports about
          any such necessary case).  This path seemed better than putting all the
          risks of this change in a future 4.0 release for the first time, where
          there would already be a ton of other core work built on top of it,
          making reversion much more difficult.
        * A new statistic 'tcp_acceptfail' was created to track all non-trivial
          failure returns from accept4().
        * The daemon now makes a soft, non-fatal attempt to raise the soft limit on
          total file descriptors if internal calculations indicate it may be too
          small for the configuration (especially tcp listener config).  It will
          complain to syslog on startup if it sees a potentially-bad fd limit
          situation that it can't fix due to the hard limits.
        * The TCP code now at least attempts to handle running into such a file
          descriptor limit more-gracefully by shutting down the most-idle of its
          older connections if possible, which is the same mechanism used by our
          existing internal limiter tcp_clients_per_thread.
        * Several sites in the code which may emit syslog errors driven by network
          input (e.g. recv() errors, accept4() errors, etc) now use a different
          logging call which applies some sanity-level ratelimiting to avoid
          excessive log spam.
        * max_edns_response[_v6] default values both changed to 1232, from previous
          defaults of 1410 and 1212, respectively.
        * The server now prefers the Linux IP_PMTUDISC_OMIT socket option over
          IP_PMTUDISC_DONT, when OMIT exists at compile time and works at runtime,
          which increases resilience against certain kinds of fragmentation
          attacks.
