---
  layout: post
---

Source tarball and GPG signature available at:
[https://github.com/gdnsd/gdnsd/releases/](https://github.com/gdnsd/gdnsd/releases/)

    3.5.2 - 2021-02-23
        * Fixed a very rare potential inter-thread race on daemon shutdown due to a
          'stop' or 'replace'.  If a still-in-progress zone reload operation had
          started just before the stop/replace, and happened to finish its job at
          nearly the exact same moment that the main thread was deallocating the
          zone data, both the reloader thread and the main thread could attempt to
          deallocate it at the same time.  This happens after DNS listeners are
          stopped, but it's still an unclean crash instead of a clean termination.
          In the 'replace' case it would also cause the new daemon to get no stats
          data handoff thanks to the crash (but the new daemon would still
          successfully start).  This issue hasn't ever been observed or reported in
          the wild, but I'm pretty sure it was possible with some extremely low
          probability.
        * The timeout for some control socket network operations between two
          daemons during a 'replace' takeover was extended from a fixed 13s to a
          fixed 37s.  There is no perfect value here that balances all concerns
          without adding a ton of new code complexity, but this new value should be
          more robust in edge cases in practice.  Making it configurable for those
          with known edge cases would be an easy next step!
        * Fixed an snprintf format bug that effectively limited stats outputs to
          32-bit counters on x86_64 x32 ABI builds, even though they were being
          tracked as 64-bit internally.
        * Fixed a minor snprintf format bug in a log message about very early
          failures in zonefile processing, which probably wasn't causing any real
          bug on most platforms
        * Hopefully improved the reliability of the 011random.t test on hosts
          that are slower and/or have smaller default UDP receive buffers.
        * Added a docs and log warning about not relying on the default 'any'
          listen option without explicitly requesting it, for compat with future
          versions.
        * Relaxed a constraint in the socket handoff process between daemons
          during 'replace' in the interest of compat with future versions.
        * Added some additional pedantic safety measures to how TCP thread
          shutdowns are sequenced.
        * Improved the utility and/or accuracy of various error log messages
        * A few small code QA nits of no real consequence
